IoActor bitesize document [BA-6078] (#5255)
broadinstitute/cromwell: docs/developers/bitesize/IoActor/IoActor.md

# IoActor: basic concepts

* **Word count:** 225

## Actor Hierarchy

IO subsystem consists of the following actors.

> ![IoActor hierarchy](IoActor.png)

Reviewer: Could you show the client actor on the actor diagram?

Author: Do you mean showing all concrete actors, which send messages to `IoActorProxy`? Or just an abstract "Client Actor" box, in order to show that messages are sent to `IoActorProxy`?

Reviewer: The latter - just an abstract client is fine (unless it's a **really** small set (ie only 1 or 2), in which case it might be possible to list them)

> All messages are sent to `IoActorProxy`, which then routes them either to `IoActor` or `IoPromiseProxyActor` based on if 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All messages are sent to `IoActorProxy`, which then routes them either to `IoActor` or `IoPromiseProxyActor` based on whether the 
```

> message contains a Promise. `IoActorProxy` receives a message with Promise, forwards message to the `IoActor`, and once 

Reviewer: (if you can fit the answer in your remaining words...) Why might a message contain a promise?

Reviewer: I see you actually answer this in the `Message types and processing logic` section below. Does the "`IoActorProxy` receives a message with Promise..." duplicate what's already written below?

Author: I think that mentioning Promise right here helps to justify why we need a proxy actor at all, whereas in the `Message types and processing logic` I'm explaining what is that `clientContext` field which may be or may be not part of the `IoActors's` incoming message.

response from `IoActor` comes back, completes the promise.

`IoActor` has back-pressure (always enabled) and throttling (configurable) features implemented in order to prevent 
overflowing the incoming messages queue.

## Message types and processing logic

IoActor accepts messages of base type `IoCommand[T]` with or without clientContext (which is a Promise, which will be 
passed through, back to the `IoPromiseProxyActor` in the end)

Message processing logic is implemented using Akka Stream API and can be represented with the following graph:
![IoActor message processing graph](IoActor_message_processing_graph.png)

There are 2 message processing flows:  
1. "GCS batch flow" to process messages, which are subtypes of `GcsBatchIoCommand`  
1. "Default flow" for all other subtypes of `IoCommand`
  
Both "GCS batch flow" and "Default flow" allow to configure desired parallelism level, which can be done during 
`IoActor's` creation using `gcsParallelism` and `nioParallelism` parameters respectively. 

> The particular implementation logic for each base IO command is encapsulated inside `ParallalelGcsBatchFlow` and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The particular implementation logic for each base IO command is encapsulated inside `ParallelGcsBatchFlow` and 
```

(presumably?)
